So continuing on with our discussion of the order of processing
I mentioned earlier that you have no control or little control over the order of processing
but not trying to talk about the control
You have over the order of results
That turns out that as we'll see
you actually do have some control over the order of the results
Start by giving an overview of
what does it mean to have results ordering in the first place
So first and foremost
the processing results of the parallel stream can be controlled More deterministic Lie than the ordering of the processing
So this is very important thing to keep in mind
programmers can control if the results will be presented in
what's known as encounter order
And encounter order is
simply the order in which the streams Source native elements available
So using our example
from the search stream gang history
Remember we had the situation is where we had the works of Shakespeare coming in in a list of strengths
So
encounter order would be the order in which each work of Shakespeare occurred in that original list
So if Julius Caesar came first followed by Hamlet
followed by Macbeth
followed by Henry
the 5th or whatnot
then that would be the encounter order and you can dictate whether encounter order should be preserved or not when the results come back from the terminal operation
say
collect
No
encounter order
Oreo will be maintained under certain circumstances
And those circumstances are the original Source
Has ordered properties ordered characteristic is set builder
Flag is set and at the aggregate operations that are used as part of the stream pipeline are obliged to maintain order and think just kind of think back to our earlier discussions
about how the streams framework internals process a stream where you end up with these flags that set properties at each of the stages in the pipeline
That's kind of what we're talking about here
It turns out that the semantics in terms of whether you get the same results will be identical
irrespective of whether the stream runs in parallel or other ones sequentially
but it's kind of like
know if you have miles per hour in kilometers per hour
If you can have a car going the same speed but one will be read in miles per hour when we were in kilometers per hour
but it's the same speed of the result is the same
So similar Concepts hear the semantics of the same irrespective of whether the stream is power or sequential
If doctor order must be preserved
If encounter order does not need to be reserved
then you make it different result
But again
that's that's by Design
The main reason for keeping track of whether you want
encounter order to be preserved
However really comes down to Performance
So the more you need encounter order to be preserved
the bigger the performance hit
the less you care about encounter order
Lower the performance hit things will actually run a lot faster
If you don't care about the order in which the results show up